# Phantasma_Simulation_Challenge

Model:
The model is based on the Social-Force-Model by Helbing and Molnar 1995. Pedestrians are accelerated/deccelerated to always walk towards the exit at their desired velocity. Pedestrians are repulsed from the closest wall and from all other pedestrians within a radius of 3m. The parameters of the repulsive potential are chosen such that direct collision between pedestrians is inhibited while maintaining functioning pedestrian flow. Maximum acceleration and a maximum velocity are enforced at every time-step. Contact with the wall is also enforced at every time-step on-top of the repulsive force. The solver is a straight-forward time integration that solves the equations of motion for every pedestrian in every timestep of .1 s. 

Simulation setup:
Two sets of pedestrians are generated that walk either bottom to top or left to right. To fullfil the pedestrian flow condition, pedestrians are spawned at an according rate at random positions in both entry ports. Every pedestrian is assigned a desired velocity between 1.1 and 1.3 m/s. When a pedestrian crosses one of the four borders of the simulation domain it is excluded from the simulation. At every .1 s a visualization of the simulation domain is created in the folder ./out/ and at every 1s the number of pedestrians in the domain, their mean velocity v and the mean effective velocity d (drift) towards the respective exits are measured and printed.
 
Results:
You find 4 videos of the pedestrians interacting at pedestrian flows of 0.2, 0.5, 1.0 and 2.0 pedestrians per second. In the top corner of the video you will find real-time information on the number of pedestrians in the system and on the current effective mean velocity. That quantity is the velocity of the pedestrians in direction of the exit. Obstructions to the pedestrian paths makes pedestrians change their trajectory and thus reduces the effective velocity. A plot of this effective mean velocity over the time is also part of the repository. It is visible that for flows of 0.2 and 0.5 1/s the effective velocity is equal to the desired walking velocity of the pedestrians. At 1.0 1/s the effective velocity is reduced by ~10%. At the highest simulated flow of 2.0 1/s the effective mean velocity of pedestrians towards their target is reduced by over 50%!
